Well we've already achieved a lot here,
we learned a lot about animations and transitions.
Now before I come to animating groups of elements which we can't do right now, the best we can do is
switch between two or multiple elements but only one may be displayed at all times.
So before I come to a different component which allows us to animate different pieces or elements
in our code at the same time,
let me show you a different thing or a different part of vuejs which we may animate or which we may
transition.
We transition between different html elements right now
but there's one thing we learned about in the component section which would be for perfect to transition
between.
I'm not talking about components because we could use them like normal html elements here,
I'm talking about dynamic components. So dynamic components would also make up for a great transition
task,
now let's do this.
For this I will first quickly add two new components,
DangerAlert component and you might be able to guess what this will hold,
it will hold a template where I will simply have a bootstrap class with alert and then
alert-danger,
this is dangerous maybe,
whoops, dangerous and I don't need any scripts here because well I don't want to have any specific logic in there,
I only want to have the template to demonstrate this and I will also have my success alert,
let's say SuccessAlert.vue,
so here we would then have our template where we say this is successful, like this.
Now I get two new components and I want to switch between them here by having a look at my dynamic components,
to use dynamic components,
I first need to register them as components and I'll do this locally here in my vue instance.
So I'll add my components key here to register both my danger alert which I need to import then and
my success alert which I'll also need to import,
so let me add these imports up here real quick.
So here we need to import the danger alert from the DangerAlert.vue
file and down there,
we also want to import the success alert and that allows me to hook them up to my properties down there
in the components object,
here I will have the danger alert and of course also the success alert.
Now both components are available,
I will add a new property to my data object which is the selected component and by default, that
shall be, let me also change these names to be appDangerAlert
now that I think about it, that would be more in line to also have this app prefix.
So here the selected component shall be app-success-alert with dashes in between
because again, this is what vuejs enables us to use when setting up our property names like this
down there.
So now this is the default selected component for my dynamic component added with this component keyword and
then with colon is dynamically bound to selected component, like that.
Now I also want to add a button which allows me to switch between both,
so here I will have my button with button, button primary and here I simply want to toggle my components,
of course you could also use a drop down instead but I'm going to use it like this.
And here I simply want to have a click listener
where I check if selected component equals app-success-alert, if that is the case then I want a set selected
component and now this is getting really long and I pull js for this, app-danger-alert otherwise separated
with the colon here,
I want to set selected component equal to app-success-alert.
So this is really just toggling between the two components
I'm importing here. Now
if I go to the application, we can see this done here,
I can switch between both
and I should maybe go to my success alert and change this to alert-success to make it green,
also add another horizontal line but now it really looks great.
So this works,
now I want to animate this. Now to animate it,
I'll go back in my application and in here of course, I wrap this in a transition element like we learned
before.
So here, whoops, like this,
what I want to do though is I now want to transition my component, my dynamic component.
Now can you do this just by using name, fade for example again to use this fade animation I already set up
and now if we load this again, we already see we get this working though, we get this ugly jump again
so to avoid this, I'll again set the mode to out in as before
and now we're able to use this just like we used the two divs before, but now this dynamic component,
and here of course we could have multiple dynamic components because it will ensure that only one is
loaded at a time and that's the only thing transition cares about, not between how many elements you're
switching but that in the end, you're only displaying one at a time.
Well we're going to leave this one at a time,
so with the next videos though where we will have a look at how we can animate lists or generally,
groups of items.